Betree: a small, simple implementation of a B^e-tree, as described in
the September 2015 ;login: article,
      "An Introduction to B^e-trees and Write-Optimization"
by Michael A. Bender, Martin Farach-Colton, William Jannen, Rob
Johnson, Bradley C. Kuszmaul, Donald E. Porter, Jun Yuan, and Yang
Zhan

Code by Rob Johnson <rob@cs.stonybrook.edu>

A B^-e-tree is an on-disk data structure with an interface similar to
a B-tree.  It stores a mapping from keys to values, supporting
inserts, queries, deletes, updates, and efficient iteration.  The key
features of a B^e-tree are extremely I/O-efficient insertions,
updates, and iteration, with query performance comparable to a B-tree.
See the above-referenced article for more details.

This distribution includes
- the B^e-tree implementation
- a test program that checks correctness and demonstrates
  how to use the B^e-tree implementation


BUILDING AND RUNNING THE TEST PROGRAM
-------------------------------------

To build, run
  $ make
  $ mkdir tmpdir
  $ ./test -d tmpdir

The test takes about a minute to run and should print "Test PASSED".
The test performs a random sequence of operations on a betree and on
an STL map, verifying that it always gets the same result from each
data structure.  If it ever finds a discrepancy, it will abort with an
assertion failure, and will likely leave some files in tmpdir.  A
successful run should leave tmpdir empty.

The code has been tested on a Debian 8.2 Linux installation with
- g++ 4.9.2
- GNU make 4.0
- libstdc++ 6.0.20
- libc 2.19
If you have trouble compiling or running the test on other systems,
please submit bug reports to rob@cs.stonybrook.edu.  Patches are
definitely appreciated.

GUIDE TO THE CODE
-----------------

test.cpp: The main test program.  Demonstrates how to construct and
          use a betree.

betree.hpp: The core of the betree implementation.  This class handles
            flushing messages down the tree, splitting nodes,
            performing inserts, queries, etc, and provides an iterator
            for scanning key/value pairs in the tree.

            The betree is written almost completely as an in-memory
	    data structure.  All I/O is handled transparently by
	    swap_space.

swap_space.{cpp,hpp}: Swaps objects to/from disk.  Maintains a cache
		      of in-memory objects.  When the cache becomes
		      too large the least-recently-used object is
		      written to disk and removed from the cache.
		      Automatically loads the object back into memory
		      when it is referenced.  Garbage collects objects
		      that are no longer referenced by any other
		      object.  Tracks when objects are modified in
		      memory so that it knows to write them back to
		      disk next time they get evicted.

backing_store.{cpp,hpp}: This defines a generic interface used by
                         swap_space to manage on-disk space.  It
                         supports allocating and deallocating on-disk
                         space. The file also defines a simple
                         implementation of the interface that stores
                         one object per file on disk.


INTERESTING PROJECTS AND TODOS
------------------------------

- Implement node merging.

- Implement logging, transactions, and MVCC.  If this can be done in a
  way that does not touch the internals of betree, that would be extra
  cool.

- Implement range upsert messages (and range deletes).  One way to
  approach this might be to replace the currently-used std::map for
  betree::node::elements with a boost interval map.

- Implement efficient garbage collection of nodes that contain only
  keys that are covered by a range delete message.

- Implement "sub-nodes".  Sub-nodes are written to disk contiguously
  as part of their parent node, but can be deserialized individually.
  This would enable the tree to write a node out to contiguous disk
  space, enabling fast range queries over the node.  Point queries,
  however, would be able to deserialize only the sub-node needed to
  answer the query, saving disk bandwidth.

- Modify system to track sizes in bytes instead of nodes, keys,
  values, etc.

- Add multi-threading support.

- Implement checkpointing and saving/loading of the betree.

- Use boost serialization.  The main challenge that I see is that the
  deserialization code needs a context for the deserialization, but
  boost serialization does not provide this.

- Implement compression and partial eviction (i.e. "evict" a node by
  compressing it but keeping it in memory)

- Implement a backing_store that manages space in a single file.
